---
title: Alayne (Sansa I)
info: from [Martin's website](http://www.georgerrmartin.com/excerpt-from-the-winds-of-winter), [archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20150420110504/http://www.georgerrmartin.com/excerpt-from-the-winds-of-winter/)
---

## **ALAYNE**

She was reading her little lord a tale of the Winged Knight when Mya
Stone came knocking on the door of his bedchamber, clad in boots and
riding leathers and smelling strongly of the stable. Mya had straw in
her hair and a scowl on her face. _That scowl comes of having Mychel
Redfort near, Alayne knew._

“Your lordship,” Mya informed Lord Robert, “Lady Waynwood’s banners
have been seen an hour down the road. She will be here soon, with your
cousin Harry. Will you want to greet them?”

_Why did she have to mention Harry?_ Alayne thought. _We will never
get Sweetrobin out of bed now._ The boy slapped a pillow. “Send them
away. I never asked them here.”

Mya looked nonplussed. No one in the Vale was better at handling a
mule, but lordlings were another matter. “They were invited,” she said
uncertainly, “for the tourney. I don’t… “

Alayne closed her book. “Thank you, Mya. Let me talk with Lord Robert,
if you would.”

Relief plain on her face, Mya fled without another word.

“I hate that Harry,” Sweetrobin said when she was gone. “He calls me
cousin, but he’s just waiting for me to die so he can take the
Eyrie. He thinks I don’t know, but I do.”

“Your lordship should not believe such nonsense,” Alayne said. “I’m
sure Ser Harrold loves you well.” _And if the gods are good, he will
love me too._ Her tummy gave a little flutter.

“He doesn’t,” Lord Robert insisted. “He wants my father’s castle,
that’s all, so he pretends.” The boy clutched the blanket to his
pimply chest. “I don’t want you to marry him, Alayne. I am the Lord of
the Eyrie, and I forbid it.” He sounded as if he were about to
cry. “You should marry me instead. We could sleep in the same bed
every night, and you could read me stories.”

_No man can wed me so long as my dwarf husbandstill lives somewhere in
this world._ Queen Cersei had collected the head of a dozen dwarfs,
Petyr claimed, but none were Tyrion’s. “Sweetrobin, you must not say
such things. You are the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale,
and you must wed a highborn lady and father a son to sit in the High
Hall of House Arryn after you are gone.”

Robert wiped his nose. “But I want — “

She put a finger to his lips. “I know what you want, but it cannot
be. I am no fit wife for you. I am bastard born.”

“I don’t care. I love you best of anyone. “

_You are such a little fool._ “Your lords bannermen will care. Some
call my father upjumped and ambitious. If you were to take me to wife,
they would say that he made you do it, that it was no will of
yours. The Lords Declarant might take arms against him once again, and
he and I should both be put to death.”

“I wouldn’t let them hurt you!” Lord Robert said. “If they try I will
make them all fly.” His hand began to tremble.

Alayne stroked his fingers. “There, my Sweetrobin, be still now.” When
the shaking passed, she said, “You must have a proper wife, a trueborn
maid of noble birth.”

“No. I want to marry you, Alayne.”

_Once your lady mother intended that very thing, but I was trueborn
then, and noble._ “My lord is kind to say so.” Alayne smoothed his
hair. Lady Lysa had never let the servants touch it, and after she had
died Robert had suffered terrible shaking fits whenever anyone came
near him with a blade, so it had been allowed to grow until it tumbled
over his round shoulders and halfway down his flabby white chest. _He
does have pretty hair. If the gods are good and he lives long enough
to wed, his wife will admire his hair, surely. That much she will love
about him._ “Any child of ours would be baseborn. Only a trueborn
child of House Arryn can displace Ser Harrold as your heir. My father
will find a proper wife for you, some highborn girl much prettier than
me. You’ll hunt and hawk together, and she’ll give you her favor to
wear in tournaments. Before long, you will have forgotten me
entirely.”

“I won’t!”

“You will. You must.” Her voice was firm, but gentle.

“The Lord of the Eyrie can do as he likes. Can’t I still love you,
even if I have to marry her? Ser Harrold has a common woman. Benjicot
says she’s carrying his bastard.”

_Benjicot should learn to keep his fool’s mouth shut._ “Is that what
you would have from me? A bastard?” She pulled her fingers from his
grasp. “Would you dishonor me that way?”

The boy looked stricken. “No. I never meant — “

Alayne stood. “If it please my lord, I must go and find my
father. Someone needs to greet Lady Waynwood.” Before her little lord
could find the words to protest, she gave him a quick curtsy and fled
the bedchamber, sweeping down the hall and across a covered bridge to
the Lord Protector’s apartments.

When she had left Petyr Baelish that morning he had been breaking his
fast with old Oswell who had arrived last night from Gulltown on a
lathered horse. She hoped they might still be talking, but Petyr’s
solar proved empty. Someone had left a window open and a stack of
papers had blown onto the floor. The sun was slanting through the
thick yellow windows, and dust motes danced in the light like tiny
golden insects. Though snow had blanketed the heights of the Giant’s
Lance above, below the mountain the autumn lingered and winter wheat
was ripening in the fields. Outside the window she could hear the
laughter of the washerwomen at the well, the din of steel on steel
from the ward where the knights were at their drills. _Good sounds._

Alayne loved it here. She felt alive again, for the first since her
father… since Lord Eddard Stark had died.

She closed the window, gathered up the fallen papers, and stacked them
on the table. One was a list of the competitors. Four-and-sixty
knights had been invited to vie for places amongst Lord Robert Arryn’s
new Brotherhood of Winged Knights, and four­ and-sixty knights had
come to tilt for the right to wear falcon’s wings upon their warhelms
and guard their lord.

The competitors came from all over the Vale, from the mountain valleys
and the coast, from Gulltown and the Bloody Gate, even the Three
Sisters. Though a few were promised, only three were wed; the eight
victors would be expected to spend the next three years at Lord
Robert’s side, as his own personal guard (Alayne had suggested seven,
like the Kingsguard, but Sweetrobin had insisted that he must have
more knights than King Tommen), so older men with wives and children
had not been invited.

_And they came,_ Alayne thought proudly. _They all came_.

It had fallen out just as Petyr said it would, the day the ravens
flew. “They’re young, eager, hungry for adventure and renown. Lysa
would not let them go to war. This is the next best thing. A chance to
serve their lord and prove their prowess. They will come. Even Harry
the Heir.” He had smoothed her hair and kissed her forehead. “What a
clever daughter you are.”

_It was clever._ The tourney, the prizes, the winged knights, it had
all been her own notion. Lord Robert’s mother had filled him full of
fears, but he always took courage from the tales she read him of Ser
Artys Arryn, the Winged Knight of legend, founder of his line. _Why
not surround him with Winged Knights?_ She had thought one night,
after Sweetrobin had finally drifted off to sleep. _His own
Kingsguard, to keep him safe and make him brave._ And no sooner did
she tell Petyr her idea than he went out and made it happen. _He will
want to be there to greet Ser Harrold. Where could he have gone?_

Alayne swept down the tower stairs to enter the pillared gallery at
the back of the Great Hall. Below her, serving men were setting up
trestle tables for the evening feast, while their wives and daughters
swept up the old rushes and scattered fresh ones. Lord Nestor was
showing Lady Waxley his prize tapestries, with their scenes of hunt
and chase. The same panels had once hung in the Red Keep of King’s
Landing, when Robert sat the Iron Throne. Joffrey had them taken down
and they had languished in some cellar until Petyr Baelish arranged
for them to be brought to the Vale as a gift for Nestor Royce. Not
only were the hangings beautiful, but the High Steward delighted in
telling anyone who’d listen that they had once belonged to a king.

Petyr was not in the Great Hall. Alayne crossed the gallery and
descended the stair built into the thick west wall, to come out in the
inner ward, where the jousting would be held. Viewing stands had
raised for all those who had come to watch, with four long tilting
barriers in between. Lord Nestor’s men were painting the barriers with
whitewash, draping the stands with bright banners, and hanging shields
on the gate the competitors would pass through when they made their
entrance.

At the north end of the yard, three quintains had been set up, and
some of the competitors were riding at them. Alayne knew them by their
shields; the bells of Belmore, green vipers for the Lynderlys, the red
sledge of Breakstone, House Tollett’s black and grey pily. Ser Mychel
Redfort set one quintain spinning with a perfectly placed blow. He was
one of those favored to win wings.

Petyr was not at the quintains, nor anywhere in the yard, but as she
turned to go a woman’s voice called out. “Alayne!” cried Myranda
Royce, from a carved stone bench beneath a beech tree, where she was
seated between two men. She looked in need of rescue. Smiling, Alayne
walked toward her friend.

Myranda was wearing a grey woolen dress, a green hooded cloak, and a
rather desperate look. On either side of her sat a knight. The one on
her right had a grizzled beard, a bald head, and a belly that spilled
over his swordbelt where his lap should have been. The one on her left
was no more than eighteen, and skinny as a spear. His ginger-colored
whiskers only partially served to disguise the angry red pimples that
dotted his face.

The bald knight wore a dark blue surcoat emblazoned with a huge pair
of pink lips. The pimply-gingerlad countered with nine white seagulls
on a field of brown, which marked him for a Shett of Gulltown. He was
staring so intently at Myranda’s breasts that he hardly noticed Alayne
until Myranda rose to hug her. “Thank you, thank you, thank you ”
Randa whispered in her ear, before she turned to say, “Sers, may I
present you the Lady Alayne Stone?”

“The Lord Protector’s daughter,” the bald knight announced, all hearty
gallantry. He rose ponderously. “And full as lovely as the tales told
of her, I see.”

Not to be outdone, the pimply knight hopped up and said, “Ser Ossifer
speaks truly, you are the most beautiful maid in all the Seven
Kingdoms.” It might have been a sweeter courtesy had he not addressed
it to her chest.

“And have you seen all those maids yourself, ser?” Alayne asked
him. “You are young to be so widely travelled.”

He blushed, which only made his pimples look angrier. “No, my lady. I
am from Gulltown.”

_And I am not, though Alayne was born there._ She would need to be
careful around this one. “I remember Gulltown fondly,” she told him,
with a smile as vague as it was pleasant. To Myranda she said, “Do you
know where my father’s gotten to, perchance?”

“Let me take you to him, my lady.”

“I do hope you will forgive me for depriving you of Lady Myranda’s
company,” Alayne told the knights. She did not wait for a reply, but
took the older girl arm-in-arm and drew her away from the bench. Only
when they were out of earshot did she whisper, “Do you really know
where my father is?”

“Of course not. Walk faster, my new suitors may be following.” Myranda
made a face. “Ossifer Lipps is the dullest knight in the Vale, but
Uther Shett aspires to his laurels. I am praying they fight a duel for
my hand, and kill each other.”

Alayne giggled. “Surely Lord Nestor would not seriously entertain a
suit from such men.”

“Oh, he might. My lord father is annoyed with me for killing my last
husband and putting him to all this trouble.”

“It was not your fault he died.”

“There was no one else in the bed that I recall.”

Alayne could not help but shutter. Myranda’s husband had died when he
was making love with her. “Those Sistermen who came in yesterday were
gallant,” she said, to change the subject. “If you don’t like Ser
Ossifer or Ser Uther, marry one of them instead. I thought the
youngest one was very handsome.”

“The one in the sealskin cloak?” Randa said, incredulous.

“One of his brothers, then.”

Myranda rolled her eyes. “They’re from the Sisters. Did you ever know
a Sisterman who could joust? They clean their swords with codfish oil
and wash in tubs of cold seawater.”

“Well,” Alayne said, “at least they’re clean.”

“Some of them have webs between their toes. I’d sooner marry Lord
Petyr. Then I’d be your mother. How little __is__ his finger, I ask
you?”

Alayne did not dignify that question with an answer. “Lady Waynwood
will be here soon, with her sons.”

“Is that a promise or a threat?” Myranda said. “The first Lady
Waynwood must have been a mare, I think. How else to explain why all
the Waynwood men are horse-faced? If I were ever to wed a Waynwood, he
would have to swear a vow to don his helm whenever he wished to fuck
me, and keep the visor _closed_.” She gave Alayne a pinch on the
arm. “My Harry will be with them, though. I notice that you left him
out. I shall never forgive you for stealing him away from me. He’s the
boy I want to marry.”

“The betrothal was my father’s doing,” Alayne protested, as she had a
hundred times before. _She is only teasing_, she told herself… but
behind the japes, she could hear the hurt.

Myranda stopped to gaze across the yard at the knights at their
practice. “Now there’s the very sort of husband I need.”

A few feet away, two knights were fighting with blunted practice
swords. Their blades crashed together twice, then slipped past each
other only to be blocked by upraised shields, but the bigger man gave
ground at the impact. Alayne could not see the front of his shield
from where she stood, but his attacker bore three ravens in flight,
each clutching a red heart in its claws. __Three hearts and three
ravens.__

She knew right then how the fight would end.

A few moments later and the big man sprawled dazed in the dust with
his helm askew. When his squire undid the fastenings to bare his head,
there was blood trickling down his scalp. _If the swords had not been
blunted, there would be brains as well._ That last head blow had been
so hard Alayne had winced in sympathy when it fell. Myranda Royce
considered the victor thoughtfully. “Do you think if I asked nicely
Ser Lyn would kill my suitors for me?”

“He might, for a plump bag of gold.” Ser Lyn Corbray was forever
desperately short of coin, all the Vale knew that.

“Alas, all I have is a plump pair of teats. Though with Ser Lyn, a
plump sausage under my skirts would serve me better.”

Alayne’s giggle drew Corbray’s attention. He handed his shield to his
loutish squire, removed his helm and quilted coif. “Ladies.” His long
brown hair was plastered to his brow by sweat.

“Well struck, Ser Lyn,” Alayne called out. “Though I fear you’ve
knocked poor Ser Owen insensible.”

Corbray glanced back to where his foe was being helped from the yard
by his squire. “He had no sense to start with, or he should not have
tried me.”

There is truth in that, Alayne thought, but some demon of mischief was
in her that morning, so she gave Ser Lyn a thrust of her own. Smiling
sweetly, she said, “My lord father tells me your brother’s new wife is
with child.”

Corbray gave her a dark look. “Lyonel sends his regrets. He remains at
Heart’s Home with his peddler’s daughter, watching her belly swell as
if he were the first man who ever got a wench pregnant.”

_Oh, that’s an open wound,_ thought Alayne. Lyonel Corbray’s first
wife had given him nothing but a frail, sickly babe who died in
infancy, and during all those years Ser Lyn had remained his brother’s
heir. When the poor woman finally died, however, Petyr Baelish had
stepped in and brokered a new marriage for Lord Corbray. The second
Lady Corbray was sixteen, the daughter of a wealthy Gulltown merchant,
but she had come with an immense dowry, and men said she was a tall,
strapping, healthy girl, with big breasts and good, wide hips. And
fertile too, it seems.

“We are all praying that the Mother grants Lady Corbray an easy labor
and a healthy child,” said Myranda.

Alayne could not help herself. She smiled and said, “My father is
always pleased to be of service to one of Lord Robert’s leal
bannermen. I’m sure he would be most delighted to help broker a
marriage for you as well, Ser Lyn.”

“How kind of him.” Corbray’s lips drew back in something that might
have been meant as a smile, though it gave Alayne a chill. “But what
need have I for heirs when I am landless and like to remain so, thanks
to our Lord Protector? No. Tell your lord father I need none of his
brood mares.”

The venom in his voice was so thick that for a moment she almost
forgot that Lyn Corbray was actually her father’s catspaw, bought and
paid for. _Or was he?_ Perhaps, instead of being Petyr’s man
pretending to be Petyr’s foe, he was actually his foe pretending to be
his man pretending to be his foe.

Just thinking about it was enough to make her head spin. Alayne turned
abruptly from the yard… and bumped into a short, sharp-faced man with
a brush of orange hair who had come up behind her. His hand shot out
and caught her arm before she could fall. “My lady. My pardons if I
took you unawares.”

“The fault was mine. I did not see you standing there.”

“We mice are quiet creatures.” Ser Shadrich was so short that he might
have been taken for a squire, but his face belonged to a much older
man. She saw long leagues in the wrinkles at the corner of his mouth,
old battles in the scar beneath his ear, and a hardness behind the
eyes that no boy would ever have. This was a man grown. Even Randa
overtopped him, though.

“Will you be seeking wings?” the Royce girl said.

“A mouse with wings would be a silly sight.”

“Perhaps you will try the melee instead?” Alayne suggested. The melee
was an afterthought, a sop for all the brothers, uncles, fathers, and
friends who had accompanied the competitors to the Gates of the Moon
to see them win their silver wings, but there would be prizes for the
champions, and a chance to win ransoms.

“A good melee is all a hedge knight can hope for, unless he stumbles
on a bag of dragons. And that’s not likely, is it?”

“I suppose not. But now you must excuse us, ser, we need to find my
lord father. “

Horns sounded from atop the wall. “Too late,” Myranda said. “They’re
here. We shall need to do the honors by ourselves.” She grinned. “Last
one to the gate must marry Uther Shett.”

They made a race of it, dashing headlong across the yard and past the
stables, skirts flapping, whilst knights and serving men alike looked
on, and pigs and chickens scattered before them. It was most
unladylike, but Alayne sound found herself laughing. For just a little
while, as she ran, she forget who she was, and where, and found
herself remembering bright cold days at Winterfell, when she would
race through Winterfell with her friend Jeyne Poole, with Arya running
after them trying to keep up.

By the time they arrived at the gatehouse, both of them were red-faced
and panting. Myranda had lost her cloak somewhere along the way. They
were just in time. The portcullis had been raised, and a column of
riders twenty strong were passing underneath. At their head rode Anya
Waynwood, Lady of Ironoaks, stern and slim, her grey-brown hair bound
up in a scarf. Her riding cloak was heavy green wool trimmed with
brown fur, and clasped at the throat by a niello brooch in the shape
of the broken wheel of her House.

Myranda Royce stepped forward and sketched a curtsy. “Lady
Anya. Welcome to the Gates of the Moon.”

“Lady Myranda. Lady Alayne.” Anya Waynwood inclined her head to each
of them in turn. “It is good of you to greet us. Allow me to present
my grandson, Ser Roland Waynwood.” She nodded at the knight who had
spoken. “And this is my youngest son, Ser Wallace Waynwood. And of
course my ward, Ser Harrold Hardyng.”

_Harry the Heir_, Alayne thought. _My husband-to-be_, if he will have
me. A sudden terror filled her. She wondered if her face was
red. _Don’t stare at him_, she reminded herself, _don’t stare, don’t
gape, don’t gawk. Look away._ Her hair must be a frightful mess after
all that running. It took all her will to stop herself from trying to
tuck the loose strands back into place. _Never mind your stupid
hair. Your hair doesn’t matter. It’s him that matters. Him, and the
Waynwoods._

Ser Roland was the oldest of the three, though no more than
five-and-twenty. He was taller and more muscular than Ser Wallace, but
both were long-faced and lantern-jawed, with stringy brown hair and
pinched noses. Horsefaced and homely, Alayne thought.

Harry, though…

_My Harry. My lord, my lover, my betrothed._

Ser Harrold Hardyng looked every inch a lord-in-waiting; clean-limbed
and handsome, straight as a lance, hard with muscle. Men old enough to
have known Jon Arryn in his youth said Ser Harrold had his look, she
knew. He had a mop of sandy blond hair, pale blue eyes, an aquiline
nose. _Joffrey was comely too, though,_ she reminded herself. _A
comely monster, that’s what he was. Little Lord Tyrion was kinder,
twisted though he was._

Harry was staring at her. _He knows who I am_, she realized, _and he
does not seem pleased to see me._ It was only then that she took note
of his heraldry. Though his surcoat and horse trappings were patterned
in the red-and-white diamonds of House Hardyng, his shield was
quartered. The arms of Hardyng and Waynwood were displayed in the
first and third quarters, respectively, but in the second and fourth
quarters he bore the moon-and-falcon of House Arryn, sky blue and
cream. Sweetrobin will not like that.

Ser Wallace said, “Are we the l-l-last?”

“You are, sers,” replied Myranda Royce, taking absolutely no notice of
his stammer.

“Wh-wh-when will the t-t-tilts commence?”

“Oh, soon, I pray,” said Randa. “Some of the competitors have been
here for almost a moon’s turn, partaking of my father’s meat and
mead. All good fellows, and very brave… but they do eat rather a lot.”

The Waynwoods laughed, and even Harry the Heir cracked a thin
smile. “It was snowing in the passes, else we would have been here
sooner,” said Lady Anya.

“Had we known such beauty awaited us at the Gates, we would have
flown,” Ser Roland said. Though his words were addressed to Myranda
Royce, he smiled at Alayne as he said them.

“To fly you would need wings,” Randa replied, “and there are some
knights here who might have a thing to say concerning that.”

“I look forward to a spirited discussion.” Ser Roland swung down from
his horse, turned to Alayne, and smiled. “I had heard that Lord
Littlefinger’s daughter was fair of face and full of grace, but no one
ever told me that she was a thief.”

“You wrong me, ser. I am no thief!”

Ser Roland placed his hand over his heart. “Then how do you explain
this hole in my chest, from where you stole my heart?”

“He is only t-teasing you, my lady,” stammered Ser Wallace. “My
n-n-nephew never had a h-h-heart.”

“The Waynwood wheel has a broken spoke, and we have my nuncle here.”
Ser Roland gave Wallace a whap behind the ear. “Squires should be
quiet when knights are speaking.”

Ser Wallace reddened. “I am no more a s-squire, my lady. My n-nephew
knows full well that I was k-k-kni-k-k-kni –“

“Dubbed?” Alayne suggested gently.

“Dubbed,” said Wallace Waynwood, gratefully.

_Robb would be his age, if he were still alive_, she could not help
but think, _but Robb died a king, and this is just a boy_.

“My lord father has assigned you rooms in the East Tower,” Lady
Myranda was telling Lady Waynwood, “but I fear your knights will need
to share a bed. The Gates of the Moon were never meant to house so
many noble visitors.”

“You are in the Falcon Tower, Ser Harrold,” Alayne put in. _Far away
from Sweetrobin._ That was intentional, she knew. Petyr Baelish did
not leave such things to chance. “If it please you, I will show you to
your chambers myself.” This time her eyes met Harry’s. She smiled just
for him, and said a silent prayer to the Maiden. _Please, he doesn’t
need to love me, just make him like me, just a little, that would be
enough for now._

Ser Harrold looked down at her coldly. “Why should it please me to be
escorted anywhere by Littlefinger’s bastard?”

All three Waynwoods looked at him askance. “You are a guest here,
Harry,” Lady Anya reminded him, in a frosty voice. “See that you
remember that.”

_A lady’s armor is her courtesy._ Alayne could feel the blood rushing
to her face. No tears, she prayed. _Please, please, I must not cry._
“As you wish, ser. And now if you will excuse me, Littlefinger’s
bastard must find her lord father and let him know that you have come,
so we can begin the tourney on the morrow.” _And may your horse
stumble, Harry the Heir, so you fall on your stupid head in your first
tilt._ She showed the Waynwoods a stone face as they blurted out
awkward apologies for their companion. When they were done she turned
and fled.

Near the keep, she ran headlong into Ser Lothor Brune and almost
knocked him off his feet. “Harry the Heir? Harry the Arse, I say. He’s
just some upjumped squire.”

Alayne was so grateful that she hugged him. “Thank you. Have you seen
my father, ser?”

“Down in the vaults, ” Ser Lothar said, “inspecting Lord Nestor’s
granaries with Lord Grafton and Lord Belmore.”

The vaults were large and dark and filthy. Alayne lit a taper and
clutched her skirt as she made the descent. Near the bottom, she heard
Lord Grafton’s booming voice, and followed.”The merchants are
clamoring to buy, and the lords are clamoring to sell,” the Gulltowner
was saying when she found them. Though not a tall man, Grafton was
wide, with thick arms and shoulders. His hair was a dirty blond
mop. “How am I to stop that, my lord?”

“Post guardsmen on the docks. If need be, seize the ships. How does
not matter, so long as no food leaves the Vale. “

“These prices, though,” protested fat Lord Belmore,” these prices are
more than fair.”

“You say _more than fair_, my lord. _I say less than we would
wish_. Wait. If need be, buy the food yourself and keep it
stored. Winter is coming. Prices must go higher.”

“Perhaps,” said Belmore, doubtfully.

“Bronze Yohn will not wait, ” Grafton complained. “He need not ship
through Gulltown, he has his own ports. Whilst we are hoarding our
harvest, Royce and the other Lords Declarant will turn theirs into
silver, you may be sure of that.”

“Let us hope so,” said Petyr. “When their granaries are empty, they
will need every scrap of that silver to buy sustenance from us. And
now if you will excuse me, my lord, it would seem my daughter has need
of me.”

“Lady Alayne,” Lord Grafton said. “You look bright-eyed this morning.”

“You are kind to say so, my lord. Father, I am sorry to disturb you,
but I thought you would want to know that the Waynwoods have arrived.”

“And is Ser Harrold with them?”

_Horrible Ser Harrold._ “ He is.”

Lord Belmore laughed. “I never thought Royce would let him come. Is he
blind, or merely stupid?”

“He is honorable. Sometimes it amounts to the same thing. If he denied
the lad the chance to prove himself, it could create a rift between
them, so why not let him tilt? The boy is nowise skilled enough to win
a place amongst the Winged Knights.”

“I suppose not,” said Belmore, grudgingly. Lord Grafton kissed Alayne
on the hand, and the two lords went off, leaving her alone with her
lord father.

“Come,” Petyr said, “walk with me.” He took her by the arm and led her
deeper into the vaults, past an empty dungeon. “And how was your first
meeting with Harry the Heir?”

“He’s horrible.”

“The world is full of horrors, sweet. By now you ought to know
that. You’ve seen enough of them.”

“Yes,” she said, “but why must he be so cruel? He called me your
bastard. Right in the yard, in front of everyone.”

“So far as he knows, that’s who you are. This betrothal was never his
idea, and Bronze Yohn has no doubt warned him against my wiles. You
are my daughter. He does not trust you, and he believes that you’re
beneath him.”

“Well, I’m not. He may think he’s some great knight, but Ser Lothor
says he’s just some upjumped squire.”

Petyr put his arm around her. “So he is, but he is Robert’s heir as
well. Bringing Harry here was the first step in our plan, but now we
need to keep him, and only you can do that. He has a weakness for a
pretty face, and whose face is prettier than yours? Charm
him. Entrance him. Bewitch him.”

“I don’t know how,” she said miserably.

“Oh, I think you do,” said Littlefinger, with one of those smiles that
did not reach his eyes. “You will be the most beautiful woman in the
hall tonight, as lovely as your lady mother at your age. I cannot seat
you on the dais, but you’ll have a place of honor above the salt and
underneath a wall sconce. The fire will be shining in your hair, so
everyone will see how fair of face you are. Keep a good long spoon on
hand to beat the squires off, sweetling. You will not want green boys
underfoot when the knights come round to beg you for your favor.”

“Who would ask to wear a bastard’s favor?”

“Harry, if he has the wits the gods gave a goose… but do not give it
to him. Choose some other gallant, and favor him instead. You do not
want to seem too eager.”

“No,” Alayne said.

“Lady Waynwood will insist that Harry dance with you, I can promise
you that much. That will be your chance. Smile at the boy. Touch him
when you speak. Tease him, to pique his pride. If he seems to be
responding, tell him that you are feeling faint, and ask him to take
you outside for a breath of fresh air. No knight could refuse such a
request from a fair maiden.”

“Yes,” she said, “but he thinks that I’m a bastard.”

“A beautiful bastard, and the Lord Protector’s daughter.” Petyr drew
her close and kissed her on both cheeks. “The night belongs to you,
sweetling, Remember that, always.”

“I’ll try, father,” she said.

The feast proved to be everything her father promised.

Sixty-four dishes were served, in honor of the sixty-four competitors
who had come so far to contest for silver wings before their
lord. From the rivers and the lakes came pike and trout and salmon,
from the seas crabs and cod and herring. Ducks there were, and capons,
peacocks in their plumage and swans in almond milk. Suckling pigs were
served up crackling with apples in their mouths, and three huge
aurochs were roasted whole above firepits in the castle yard, since
they were too big to get through the kitchen doors. Loaves of hot
bread filled the trestle tables in Lord Nestor’s hall, and massive
wheels of cheese were brought up from the vaults. The butter was
fresh-churned, and there were leeks and carrots, roasted onions,
beets, turnips, parsnips. And best of all, Lord Nestor’s cooks
prepared a splendid subtlety, a lemon cake in the shape of the Giant’s
Lance, twelve feet tall and adorned with an Eyrie made of sugar.

__For me__, Alayne thought, as they wheeled it out. Sweetrobin loved
lemon cakes too, but only after she told him that they were her
favorites. The cake had required every lemon in the Vale, but Petyr
had promised that he would send to Dorne for more.

There were gifts as well, splendid gifts. Each of the competitors
received a cloak of cloth-of-silver and a lapis brooch in the shape of
a pair of falcon’s wings. Fine steel daggers were given to the
brothers, fathers, and friends who had come to watch them tilt. For
their mothers, sisters, and ladies fair there were bolts of silk and
Myrish lace.

“Lord Nestor has an open hand,” Alayne heard Ser Edmund Breakstone
say. “An open hand and a little finger,” Lady Waynwood replied, with a
nod toward Petyr Baelish. Breakstone was not slow to take her
meaning. The true source of this largesse was not Lord Nestor, but the
Lord Protector.

When the last course had been served and cleared, the tables were
lifted from their trestles to clear the floor for dancing, and
musicians were brought in.

“Are there no singers?” asked Ben Coldwater.

“The little lord cannot abide them,” Ser Lymond Lynderly replied. “Not
since Marillion.”

“Ah… that was the man who murdered Lady Lysa, yes?”

Alayne spoke up. “His singing pleased her greatly, and she showed him
too much favor, perhaps. When she wed my father he went mad and pushed
her out the Moon Door. Lord Robert has hated singing ever since. He is
still fond of music, though.”

“As am I,” Coldwater said. Rising, he offered Alayne his hand. “Would
you honor me with this dance, my lady?”

“You’re very kind,” she said, as he led her to the floor.

He was her first partner of the evening, but far from the last. Just
as Petyr had promised, the young knights flocked around her, vying for
her favor. After Ben came Andrew Tollett, handsome Ser Byron,
red-nosed Ser Morgarth, and Ser Shadrich the Mad Mouse. Then Ser Albar
Royce, Myranda’s stout dull brother and Lord Nestor’s heir. She danced
with all three Sunderlands, none of whom had webs between their
fingers, though she could not vouch for their toes. Uther Shett
appeared to pay her slimy compliments as he trod upon her feet, but
Ser Targon the Halfwild proved to be the soul of courtesy. After that
Ser Roland Waynwood swept her up and made her laugh with mocking
comments about half the other knights in the hall. His uncle Wallace
took a turn as well and tried to do the same, but the words would not
come. Alayne finally took pity on him and began to chatter happily, to
spare him the embarrassment. When the dance was done she excused
herself, and went back to her place to have a drink of wine.

And there he stood, Harry the Heir himself; tall, handsome,
scowling. “Lady Alayne. May I partner you in this dance?”

She considered for a moment. “No. I don’t think so.”

Color rose to his cheeks. “I was unforgiveably rude to you in the
yard. You must forgive me.”

“Must?” She tossed her hair, took a sip of wine, made him wait. “How
can you forgive someone who is unforgiveably rude? Will you explain
that to me, ser?”

Ser Harrold looked confused. “Please. One dance.”

_Charm him. Entrance him. Bewitch him._ “If you insist.”

He nodded, offered his arm, led her out onto the floor. As they waited
for the music to resume, Alayne glanced at the dais, where Lord Robert
sat staring at them. Please, she prayed, don’t let him start to twitch
and shake. Not here. Not now. Maester Coleman would have made certain
that he drank a strong dose of sweetmilk before the feast, but even
so.

Then the musicians took up a tune, and she was dancing.

_Say something_, she urged herself. _You will never make Ser Harry
love you if you don’t have the courage to talk him._ Should she tell
him what a good dancer he was? __No_, he’s probably heard that a dozen
times tonight. Besides, Petyr said that I should not seem eager._
Instead she said, “I have heard that you are about to be a father.” It
was not something most girls would say to their almost-betrothed, but
she wanted to see if Ser Harrold would lie.

“For the second time. My daughter Alys is two years old.”

_Your bastard daughter Alys_, Alayne thought, but what she said was,
“That one had a different mother, though.”

“Yes. Cissy was a pretty thing when I tumbled her, but childbirth left
her as fat as a cow, so Lady Anya arranged for her to marry one of her
men-at-arms. It is different with Saffron.”

“Saffron?” Alayne tried not to laugh. “Truly?”

Ser Harrold had the grace to blush. “Her father says she is more
precious to him than gold. He’s rich, the richest man in Gulltown. A
fortune in spices.”

“What will you name the babe?” she asked. “Cinnamon if she’s a girl?
Cloves if he’s a boy?”

That almost made him stumble. “My lady japes.”

“Oh, no.” Petyr will howl when I tell him what I said.

“Saffron is very beautiful, I’ll have you know. Tall and slim, with
big brown eyes and hair like honey.”

Alayne raised her head. “More beautiful than me?”

Ser Harrold studied her face. “You are comely enough, I grant
you. When Lady Anya first told me of this match, I was afraid that you
might look like your father.”

“Little pointy beard and all?” Alayne laughed.

“I never meant**…**“

“I hope you joust better than you talk.”

For a moment he looked shocked. But as the song was ending, he burst
into a laugh. “No one told me you were clever.”

He has good teeth, she thought, straight and white. And when he
smiles, he has the nicest dimples. She ran one finger down his
cheek. “Should we ever wed, you’ll have to send Saffron back to her
father. I’ll be all the spice you’ll want.”

He grinned. “I will hold you to that promise, my lady. Until that day,
may I wear your favor in the tourney?”

“You may not. It is promised to… another.” She was not sure who as
yet, but she knew she would find someone.
