---
title: Theon I
info: from [Martin's website](http://www.georgerrmartin.com/if-sample), [archived](http://archive.is/eoIl)
---

## **THEON GREYJOY**

The king’s voice was choked with anger. “You are a worse pirate than
Salladhor Saan.”

Theon Greyjoy opened his eyes. His shoulders were on fire and he could
not move his hands. For half a heartbeat he feared he was back in his
old cell under the Dreadfort, that the jumble of memories inside his
head was no more than the residue of some fever dream. _I was asleep_,
he realized. That, or passed out from the pain. When he tried to move,
he swung from side to side, his back scraping against stone. He was
hanging from a wall inside a tower, his wrists chained to a pair of
rusted iron rings.

The air reeked of burning peat. The floor was hard-packed dirt. Wooden
steps spiraled up inside the walls to the roof. He saw no windows. The
tower was dank, dark, and comfortless, its only furnishings a
high-backed chair and a scarred table resting on three trestles. No
privy was in evidence, though Theon saw a champerpot in one shadowed
alcove. The only light came from the candles on the table. His feet
dangled six feet off the floor.

“My brother’s debts,” the king was muttering. “Joffrey’s too, though
that baseborn abomination was no kin to me.” Theon twisted in his
chains. He knew that voice. _Stannis_.

Theon Greyjoy chortled. A stab of pain went up his arms, from his
shoulders to his wrists. All he had done, all he had suffered, Moat
Cailin and Barrowton and Winterfell, Abel and his washerwomen,
Crowfood and his Umbers, the trek through the snows, all of it had
only served to exchange one tormentor for another.

“Your Grace,” a second voice said softly. “Pardon, but your ink has
frozen.” _The Braavosi_, Theon knew. What was his name? _Tycho… Tycho
something…_ “Perhaps a bit of heat… ?”

“I know a quicker way.” Stannis drew his dagger. For an instant Theon
thought that he meant to stab the banker. _You will never get a drop
of blood from that one, my lord,_ he might have told him. The king
laid the blade of the knife against the ball of his left thumb, and
slashed. “There. I will sign in mine own blood. That ought to make
your masters happy.”

“If it please Your Grace, it will please the Iron Bank.”

Stannis dipped a quill in the blood welling from his thumb and
scratched his name across the piece of parchment. “You will depart
today. Lord Bolton may be on us soon. I will not have you caught up in
the fighting.”

“That would be my preference as well.” The Braavosi slipped the roll
of parchment inside a wooden tube. “I hope to have the honor of
calling on Your Grace again when you are seated on your Iron Throne.”

“You hope to have your gold, you mean. Save your pleasantries. It is
coin I need from Braavos, not empty courtesy. Tell the guard outside I
have need of Justin Massey.”

“It would be my pleasure. The Iron Bank is always glad to be of
service.” The banker bowed.

As he left, another entered; a knight. The king’s knights had been
coming and going all night, Theon recalled dimly. This one seemed to
be the king’s familiar. Lean, dark-haired, hard-eyed, his face marred
by pockmarks and old scars, he wore a faded surcoat embroidered with
three moths. “Sire,” he announced, “the maester is without. And Lord
Arnolf sends word that he would be most pleased to break his fast with
you.”

“The son as well?”

“And the grandsons. Lord Wull seeks audience as well. He wants—”

“I know what he wants.” The king indicated Theon. “Him. Wull wants him
dead. Flint, Norrey… all of them will want him dead. For the boys he
slew. Vengeance for their precious Ned.”

“Will you oblige them?”

“Just now, the turncloak is more use to me alive. He has knowledge we
may need. Bring in this maester.” The king plucked a parchment off the
table and squinted over it. _A letter_, Theon knew. Its broken seal
was black wax, hard and shiny. _I know what that says_, he thought,
giggling.

Stannis looked up. “The turncloak stirs.”

“Theon. My name is Theon.” He had to remember his name.

“I know your name. I know what you did.”

“I saved her.” The outer wall of Winterfell was eighty feet high, but
beneath the spot where he had jumped the snows had piled up to a depth
of more than forty. _A cold white pillow_. The girl had taken the
worst of it. _Jeyne, her name is Jeyne, but she will never tell
them_. Theon had landed on top of her, and broken some of her ribs. “I
saved the girl,” he said. “We _flew_.”

Stannis snorted. “You fell. Umber saved her. If Mors Crowfood and his
men had not been outside the castle, Bolton would have had the both of
you back in moments.”

_Crowfood_. Theon remembered. An old man, huge and powerful, with a
ruddy face and a shaggy white beard. He had been seated on a garron,
clad in the pelt of a gigantic snow bear, its head his hood. Under it
he wore a stained white leather eye patch that reminded Theon of his
uncle Euron. He’d wanted to rip it off Umber’s face, to make certain
that underneath was only an empty socket, not a black eye shining with
malice. Instead he had whimpered through his broken teeth and said, “I
am—”

“—a turncloak and a kinslayer,” Crowfood had finished. “You will hold
that lying tongue, or lose it.”

But Umber had looked at the girl closely, squinting down with his one
good eye. “You are the younger daughter?”

And Jeyne had nodded. “Arya. My name is _Arya_.”

“Arya of Winterfell, aye. When last I was inside those walls, your
cook served us a steak and kidney pie. Made with ale, I think, best I
ever tasted. What was his name, that cook?”

“Gage,” Jeyne said at once. “He was a good cook. He would make
lemoncakes for Sansa whenever we had lemons.”

Crowfood had fingered his beard. “Dead now, I suppose. That smith of
yours as well. A man who knew his steel. What was his name?”

Jeyne had hesitated. _Mikken_, Theon thought. _His name was
Mikken_. The castle blacksmith had never made any lemoncakes for
Sansa, which made him far less important than the castle cook in the
sweet little world she had shared with her friend Jeyne
Poole. _Remember, damn you. Your father was the steward, he had charge
of the whole household. The smith’s name was Mikken, Mikken, Mikken. I
had him put to death before me!_

“Mikken,” Jeyne said.

Mors Umber had grunted. “Aye.” What he might have said or done next
Theon never learned, for that was when the boy ran up, clutching a
spear and shouting that the portcullis on Winterfell’s main gate was
rising. _And how Crowfood had grinned at that._

Theon twisted in his chains, and blinked down at the king. “Crowfood
found us, yes, he sent us here to you, but it was me who saved
her. Ask her yourself.” She would tell him. “_You saved me_,” Jeyne
had whispered, as he was carrying her through the snow. She was pale
with pain, but she had brushed one hand across his cheek and
smiled. “I saved _Lady Arya_,” Theon whispered back at her. And then
all at once Mors Umber’s spears were all around them. “Is this my
thanks?” he asked Stannis, kicking feebly against the wall. His
shoulders were in agony. His own weight was tearing them from their
sockets. How long had he been hanging here? Was it still night
outside? The tower was windowless, he had no way to know.

“Unchain me, and I will serve you.”

“As you served Roose Bolton and Robb Stark?” Stannis snorted. “I think
not. We have a warmer end in mind for you, turncloak. But not until
we’re done with you.”

_He means to kill me_. The thought was queerly comforting. Death did
not frighten Theon Greyjoy. Death would mean an end to pain. “Be done
with me, then,” he urged the king. “Take off my head off and stick it
on a spear. I slew Lord Eddard’s sons, I ought to die. But do it
quick. _He is coming_.”

“Who is coming? Bolton?”

“Lord Ramsay,” Theon hissed. “The son, not the father. You must not
let him take him. Roose… Roose is safe within the walls of Winterfell
with his fat new wife. _Ramsay is coming_.”

“Ramsay Snow, you mean. The Bastard.”

“_Never call him that!_” Spittle sprayed from Theon’s lips. “Ramsay
_Bolton_, not Ramsay Snow, never Snow, never, you have to remember his
_name_, or he will hurt you.”

“He is welcome to try. Whatever name he goes by.”

The door opened with a gust of cold black wind and a swirl of
snow. The knight of the moths had returned with the maester the king
had sent for, his grey robes concealed beneath a heavy bearskin
pelt. Behind them came two other knights, each carrying a raven in a
cage. One was the man who’d been with Asha when the banker delivered
him to her, a burly man with a winged pig on his surcoat. The other
was taller, broad-shouldered and brawny. The big man’s breastplate was
silvered steel inlaid with niello; though scratched and dinted, it
still shone in the candlelight. The cloak that he wore over it was
fastened with a burning heart.

“Maester Tybald,” announced the knight of the moths.

The maester sank to his knees. He was red-haired and round-shouldered,
with close-set eyes that kept flicking toward Theon hanging on the
wall. “Your Grace. How may I be of service?”

Stannis did not reply at once. He studied the man before him, his brow
furrowed. “Get up.” The maester rose. “You are maester at the
Dreadfort. How is it you are here with us?”

“Lord Arnolf brought me to tend to his wounded.”

“To his wounded? Or his ravens?”

“Both, Your Grace.”

“Both.” Stannis snapped the word out. “A maester’s raven flies to one
place, and one place only. Is that correct?”

The maester mopped sweat from his brow with his sleeve. “N-not
entirely, Your Grace. Most, yes. Some few can be taught to fly between
two castles. Such birds are greatly prized. And once in a very great
while, we find a raven who can learn the names of three or four or
five castles, and fly to each upon command. Birds as clever as that
come along only once in a hundred years.”

Stannis gestured at the black birds in the cages. “These two are not
so clever, I presume.”

“No, Your Grace. Would that it were so.”

“Tell me, then. Where are these two trained to fly?”

Maester Tybald did not answer. Theon Greyjoy kicked his feet feebly,
and laughed under his breath. _Caught!_

“Answer me. If we were to loose these birds, would they return to the
Dreadfort?” The king leaned forward. “Or might they fly for Winterfell
instead?”

Maester Tybald pissed his robes. Theon could not see the dark stain
spreading from where he hung, but the smell of piss was sharp and
strong.

“Maester Tybald has lost his tongue,” Stannis observed to his
knights. “Godry, how many cages did you find?”

“Three, Your Grace,” said the big knight in the silvered
breastplate. “One was empty.”

“Y-your Grace, my order is sworn to serve, we… ”

“I know all about your vows. What I want to know is what was in the
letter that you sent to Winterfell. Did you perchance tell Lord Bolton
where to find us?”

“S-sire.” Round-shouldered Tybald drew himself up proudly.

“The rules of my order forbid me to divulge the contents of Lord
Arnolf’s letters.”

“Your vows are stronger than your bladder, it would seem.”

“Your Grace must understand—”

“_Must_ I?” The king shrugged. “If you say so. You are a man of
learning, after all. I had a maester on Dragonstone who was almost a
father to me. I have great respect for your order and its vows. Ser
Clayton does not share my feelings, though. He learned all he knows in
the wynds of Flea Bottom. Were I to put you in his charge, he might
strangle you with your own chain or scoop your eye out with a spoon.”

“Only the one, Your Grace,” volunteered the balding knight, him of the
winged pig. “I’d leave t’other.”

“How many eyes does a maester need to read a letter?” asked
Stannis. “One should suffice, I’d think. I would not wish to leave you
unable to fulfill your duties to your lord. Roose Bolton’s men may
well be on their way to attack us even now, however, so _you_ must
understand if I skimp on certain courtesies. I will ask you once
again. What was in the message you sent to Winterfell?”

The maester quivered. “A m-map, Your Grace.”

The king leaned back in his chair. “Get him out of here,” he
commanded. “Leave the ravens.” A vein was throbbing in his
neck. “Confine this grey wretch to one of the huts until I decide what
is to be done with him.”

“It will be done,” the big knight declared. The maester vanished in
another blast of cold and snow. Only the knight of the three moths
remained.

Stannis glowered up at Theon where he hung. “You are not the only
turncloak here, it would seem. Would that all the lords in the Seven
Kingdoms had but a single neck… ” He turned to his knight. “Ser
Richard, whilst I am breaking fast with Lord Arnolf, you are to disarm
his men and take them into custody. Most will be asleep. Do them no
harm, unless they resist. It may be they did not know. Question some
upon that point… but sweetly. If they had no knowledge of this
treachery, they shall have the chance to prove their loyalty.” He
snapped a hand in dismissal. “Send in Justin Massey.”

_Another knight_, Theon knew, when Massey entered. This one was fair,
with a neatly trimmed blond beard and thick straight hair so pale it
seemed more white than gold. His tunic bore the triple spiral, an
ancient sigil for an ancient House. “I was told Your Grace had need of
me,” he said, from one knee.

Stannis nodded. “You will escort the Braavosi banker back to the
Wall. Choose six good men and take twelve horses.”

“To ride or eat?”

The king was not amused. “I want you gone before midday, ser. Lord
Bolton could be on us any moment, and it is imperative that the banker
return to Braavos. You shall accompany him across the narrow sea.”

“If there is to be a battle, my place is here with you.”

“Your place is where I say it is. I have five hundred swords as good
as you, or better, but you have a pleasing manner and a glib tongue,
and those will be of more use to me at Braavos then here. The Iron
Bank has opened its coffers to me. You will collect their coin and
hire ships and sellswords. A company of good repute, if you can find
one. The Golden Company would be my first choice, if they are not
already under contract. Seek for them in the Disputed Lands, if need
be. But first hire as many swords as you can find in Braavos, and send
them to me by way of Eastwatch. Archers as well, we need more bows.”

Ser Justin’s hair had fallen down across one eye. He pushed it back
and said, “The captains of the free companies will join a lord more
readily than a mere knight, Your Grace. I hold neither lands nor
title, why should they sell their swords to me?”

“Go to them with both fists full of golden dragons,” the king said, in
an acid tone. “That should prove persuasive. Twenty thousand men
should suffice. Do not return with fewer.”

“Sire, might I speak freely?”

“So long as you speak quickly.”

“Your Grace should go to Braavos with the banker.”

“Is that your counsel? That I should flee?” The king’s face
darkened. “That was your counsel on the Blackwater as well, as I
recall. When the battle turned against us, I let you and Horpe chivvy
me back to Dragonstone like a whipped cur.”

“The day was lost, Your Grace.”

“Aye, that was what you said. ’_The day is lost, sire. Fall back now,
that you may fight again._’ And now you would have me scamper off
across the narrow sea… ”

“… to raise an army, aye. As Bittersteel did after the Battle of the
Redgrass Field, where Daemon Blackfyre fell.”

“Do not prate at me of history, ser. Daemon Blackfyre was a rebel and
usurper, Bittersteel a bastard. When he fled, he swore he would return
to place a son of Daemon’s upon the Iron Throne. He never did. Words
are wind, and the wind that blows exiles across the narrow sea seldom
blows them back. That boy Viserys Targaryen spoke of return as
well. He slipped through my fingers at Dragonstone, only to spend his
life wheedling after sellswords. ‘The Beggar King,’ they called him in
the Free Cities. Well, I do not beg, nor will I flee again. I am
Robert’s heir, the rightful king of Westeros. My place is with my
men. Yours is in Braavos. Go with the banker, and do as I have bid.”

“As you command,” Ser Justin said.

“It may be that we shall lose this battle,” the king said grimly. “In
Braavos you may hear that I am dead. It may even be true. You shall
find my sellswords nonetheless.”

The knight hesitated. “Your Grace, if you are dead—”

“—you will avenge my death, and seat my daughter on the Iron
Throne. Or die in the attempt.”

Ser Justin put one hand on his sword hilt. “On my honor as a knight,
you have my word.”

“Oh, and take the Stark girl with you. Deliver her to Lord Commander
Snow on your way to Eastwatch.” Stannis tapped the parchment that lay
before him. “A true king pays his debts.”

_Pay it, aye_, thought Theon. _Pay it with false coin_. Jon Snow would
see through the impostesure at once. Lord Stark’s sullen bastard had
known Jeyne Poole, and he had always been fond of his little
half-sister Arya.

“The black brothers will accompany you as far as Castle Black,” the
king went on. “The ironmen are to remain here, supposedly to fight for
us. Another gift from Tycho Nestoris. Just as well, they would only
slow you down. Ironmen were made for ships, not horses. Lady Arya
should have a female companion as well. Take Alysane Mormont.”

Ser Justin pushed back his hair again. “And Lady Asha?”

The king considered that a moment. “No.”

“One day Your Grace will need to take the Iron Islands. That will go
much easier with Balon Greyjoy’s daughter as a catspaw, with one of
your own leal men as her lord husband.”

“You?” The king scowled. “The woman is wed, Justin.”

“A proxy marriage, never consummated. Easily set aside. The groom is
old besides. Like to die soon.”

_From a sword through his belly if you have your way, ser worm_. Theon
knew how these knights thought.

Stannis pressed his lips together. “Serve me well in this matter of
the sellswords, and you may have what you desire. Until such time, the
woman must needs remain my captive.”

Ser Justin bowed his head. “I understand.”

That only seemed to irritate the king. “Your understanding is not
required. Only your obedience. Be on your way, ser.”

This time, when the knight took his leave, the world beyond the door
seemed more white than black.

Stannis Baratheon paced the floor. The tower was a small one, dank and
cramped. A few steps brought the king around to Theon. “How many men
does Bolton have at Winterfell?”

“Five thousand. Six. More.” He gave the king a ghastly grin, all
shattered teeth and splinters. “More than you.”

“How many of those is he like to send against us?”

“No more than half.” That was a guess, admittedly, but it felt right
to him. Roose Bolton was not a man to blunder blindly out into the
snow, map or no. He would hold his main strength in reserve, keep his
best men with him, trust in Winterfell’s massive double wall. “The
castle was too crowded. Men were at each other’s throats, the
Manderlys and Freys especially. It’s them his lordship’s sent after
you, the ones that he’s well rid of.”

“Wyman Manderly.” The king’s mouth twisted in contempt. “Lord
Too-Fat-to-Sit-a-Horse. Too fat to come to me, yet he comes to
Winterfell. Too fat to bend the knee and swear me his sword, yet now
he wields that sword for Bolton. I sent my Onion Lord to treat with
him, and Lord Too-Fat butchered him and mounted his head and hands on
the walls of White Harbor for the Freys to gloat over. And the Freys…
has the Red Wedding been forgotten?”

“The north remembers. The Red Wedding, Lady Hornwood’s fingers, the
sack of Winterfell, Deepwood Motte and Torrhen’s Square, they remember
all of it.” _Bran and Rickon. They were only miller’s boys._ “Frey and
Manderly will never combine their strengths. They will come for you,
but separately. Lord Ramsay will not be far behind them. He wants his
bride back. He wants his Reek.” Theon’s laugh was half a titter, half
a whimper. “Lord Ramsay is the one Your Grace should fear.”

Stannis bristled at that. “I defeated your uncle Victarion and his
Iron Fleet off Fair Isle, the first time your father crowned
himself. I held Storm’s End against the power of the Reach for a year,
and took Dragonstone from the Targaryens. I smashed Mance Rayder at
the Wall, though he had twenty times my numbers. Tell me, turncloak,
what battles has the Bastard of Bolton ever won that I should fear
him?”

_You must not call him that!_ A wave of pain washed over Theon
Greyjoy. He closed his eyes and grimaced. When he opened them again,
he said, “You do not know him.”

“No more than he knows me.”

“_Knows me,_” cried one of the ravens the maester had left behind. It
flapped its big black wings against the bars of its cage.

“_Knows,_” it cried again.

Stannis turned. “Stop that noise.”

Behind him, the door opened. The Karstarks had arrived.

Bent and twisted, the castellan of Karhold leaned heavily on his cane
as he made his way to the table. Lord Arnolf’s cloak was fine grey
wool, bordered in black sable and clasped with a silver starburst. _A
rich garment_, Theon thought, _on a poor excuse for a man_. He had
seen that cloak before, he knew, just as he had seen the man who wore
it. _At the Dreadfort. I remember. He sat and supped with Lord Ramsay
and Whoresbane Umber, the night they brought Reek up from his cell_.

The man beside him could only be his son. Fifty, Theon judged, with a
round soft face like his father’s, if Lord Arnolf went to fat. Behind
him walked three younger men. _The grandsons_, he surmised. One wore a
chainmail byrnie. The rest were dressed for breakfast, not for
battle. _Fools_.

“Your Grace.” Arnolf Karstark bowed his head. “An honor.” He looked
for a seat. Instead his eyes found Theon. “And who is this?”
Recognition came a heartbeat later. Lord Arnolf paled.

His stupid son remained oblivious. “There are no chairs,” the oaf
observed. One of the ravens screamed inside its cage.

“Only mine.” King Stannis sat in it. “It is no Iron Throne, but here
and now it suits.” A dozen men had filed through the tower door, led
by the knight of the moths and the big man in the silvered
breastplate. “You are dead men, understand that,” the king went
on. “Only the manner of your dying remains to be determined. You would
be well advised not to waste my time with denials. Confess, and you
shall have the same swift end that the Young Wolf gave Lord
Rickard. Lie, and you will burn. Choose.”

“I choose this.” One of the grandsons seized his sword hilt, and made
to draw it.

That proved to be a poor choice. The grandson’s blade had not even
cleared his scabbard before two of the king’s knights were on him. It
ended with his forearm flopping in the dirt and blood spurting from
his stump, and one of his brothers stumbling for the stairs, clutching
a belly wound. He staggered up six steps before he fell, and came
crashing back down to the floor.

Neither Arnolf Karstark nor his son had moved.

“Take them away,” the king commanded. “The sight of them sours my
stomach.” Within moments, the five men had been bound and removed. The
one who had lost his sword arm had fainted from loss of blood, but his
brother with the belly wound screamed loud enough for both of
them. “That is how I deal with betrayal, turncloak,” Stannis informed
Theon.

“My name is _Theon_.”

“As you will. Tell me, _Theon_, how many men did Mors Umber have with
him at Winterfell?”

“None. No men.” He grinned at his own wit. “He had boys. I saw them.”
Aside from a handful of half-crippled serjeants, the warriors that
Crowfood had brought down from Last Hearth were hardly old enough to
shave. “Their spears and axes were older than the hands that clutched
them. It was Whoresbane Umber who had the men, inside the castle. I
saw them too. Old men, every one.” Theon tittered. “Mors took the
green boys and Hother took the greybeards. All the real men went with
the Greatjon and died at the Red Wedding. Is that what you wanted to
know, Your Grace?”

King Stannis ignored the jibe. “Boys,” was all he said,
disgusted. “Boys will not hold Lord Bolton long.”

“Not long,” Theon agreed. “Not long at all.”

“_Not long_,” cried the raven from its cage.

The king gave the bird an irritated look. “That Braavosi banker
claimed Ser Aenys Frey is dead. Did some boy do that?”

“Twenty green boys, with spades,” Theon told him. “The snow fell
heavily for days. So heavily that you could not see the castle walls
ten yards away, no more than the men up on the battlements could see
what was happening beyond those walls. So Crowfood set his boys to
digging pits outside the castle gates, then blew his horn to lure Lord
Bolton out. Instead he got the Freys. The snow had covered up the
pits, so they rode right into them. Aenys broke his neck, I heard, but
Ser Hosteen only lost a horse, more’s the pity. He will be angry now.”

Strangely, Stannis smiled. “Angry foes do not concern me. Anger makes
men stupid, and Hosteen Frey was stupid to begin with, if half of what
I have heard of him is true. Let him come.”

“He will.”

“Bolton has blundered,” the king declared. “All he had to do was sit
inside his castle whilst we starved. Instead he has sent some portion
of his strength forth to give us battle. His knights will be horsed,
ours must fight afoot. His men will be well nourished, ours go into
battle with empty bellies. It makes no matter. Ser Stupid, Lord
Too-Fat, the Bastard, let them come. We hold the ground, and that I
mean to turn to our advantage.”

“The ground?” said Theon. “What ground? Here? This misbegotten tower?
This wretched little village? You have no high ground here, no walls
to hide beyond, no natural defenses.”

“Yet.”

“_Yet,_” both ravens screamed in unison. Then one quorked, and the
other muttered, “_Tree, tree, tree._”

The door opened. Beyond, the world was white. The knight of the three
moths entered, his legs caked with snow. He stomped his feet to knock
it off and said, “Your Grace, the Karstarks are taken. A few of them
resisted, and died for it. Most were too confused, and yielded
quietly. We have herded them all into the longhall and confined them
there.”

“Well done.”

“They say they did not know. The ones we’ve questioned.”

“They would.”

“We might question them more sharply… ”

“No. I believe them. Karstark could never have hoped to keep his
treachery a secret if he shared his plans with every baseborn manjack
in his service. Some drunken spearman would have let it slip one night
whilst laying with a whore. They did not need to know. They are
Karhold men. When the moment came they would have obeyed their lords,
as they had done all their lives.”

“As you say, Sire.”

“What of your own losses?”

“One of Lord Peasebury’s men was killed, and two of mine were
wounded. If it please Your Grace, though, the men are growing
anxious. There are hundreds of them gathered around the tower,
wondering what’s happened. Talk of treason is on every lip. No one
knows who to trust, or who might be arrested next. The northmen
especially—”

“I need to talk with them. Is Wull still waiting?”

“Him and Artos Flint. Will you see them?”

“Shortly. The kraken first.”

“As you command.” The knight took his leave.

_My sister_, Theon thought, _my sweet sister_. Though he had lost all
feeling in his arms, he felt the twisting in his gut, the same as when
that bloodless Braavosi banker presented him to Asha as a ‘gift.’ The
memory still rankled. The burly, balding knight who’d been with her
had wasted no time shouting for help, so they’d had no more than a few
moments before Theon was dragged away to face the king. _That was long
enough_. He had hated the look on Asha’s face when she realized who he
was; the shock in her eyes, the pity in her voice, the way her mouth
twisted in disgust. Instead of rushing forward to embrace him, she had
taken half a step backwards. “Did the Bastard do this to you?” she had
asked.

“Don’t you call him that.” Then the words came spilling out of Theon
in a rush. He tried to tell her all of it, about Reek and the
Dreadfort and Kyra and the keys, how Lord Ramsay never took anything
but skin unless you begged for it. He told her how he’d saved the
girl, leaping from the castle wall into the snow. “We flew. Let Abel
make a song of that, we _flew_.” Then he had to say who Abel was, and
talk about the washerwomen who weren’t truly washerwomen. By then
Theon knew how strange and incoherent all this sounded, yet somehow
the words would not stop. He was cold and sick and tired… and weak, so
weak, so very weak.

_She has to understand. She is my sister._ He never wanted to do any
harm to Bran or Rickon. Reek made him kill those boys, not _him_ Reek
but the other one. “I am no kinslayer,” he insisted. He told her how
he bedded down with Ramsay’s bitches, warned her that Winterfell was
full of ghosts. “The swords were gone. Four, I think, or five. I don’t
recall. The stone kings are angry.” He was shaking by then, trembling
like an autumn leaf. “The heart tree knew my name. The old
gods. _Theon_, I heard them whisper. There was no wind but the leaves
were moving. _Theon_, they said. My name is Theon.” It was good to say
the name. The more he said it, the less like he was to forget. “You
have to know your name,” he’d told his sister. “You… you told me you
were Esgred, but that was a lie. Your name is _Asha_.”

“It is,” his sister had said, so softly that he was afraid that she
might cry. Theon hated that. He hated women weeping. Jeyne Poole had
wept all the way from Winterfell to here, wept until her face was
purple as a beetroot and the tears had frozen on her cheeks, and all
because he told her that she must be Arya, or else the wolves might
send them back. “They trained you in a brothel,” he reminded her,
whispering in her ear so the others would not hear. “Jeyne is the next
thing to a whore, you must go on being Arya.” He meant no hurt to
her. It was for her own good, and his. _She has to remember her
name_. When the tip of her nose turned black from frostbite, and the
one of the riders from the Night’s Watch told her she might lose a
piece of it, Jeyne had wept over that as well. “No one will care what
Arya looks like, so long as she is heir to Winterfell,” he assured
her. “A hundred men will want to marry her. A thousand.”

The memory left Theon writhing in his chains. “Let me down,” he
pleaded. “Just for a little while, then you can hang me up again.”
Stannis Baratheon looked up at him, but did not answer. “_Tree_,” a
raven cried. “_Tree, tree, tree_.”

Then other bird said, “_Theon_,” clear as day, as Asha came striding
through the door.

Qarl the Maid was with her, and Tristifer Botley. Theon had known
Botley since they were boys together, back on Pyke. _Why has she
brought her pets? Does she mean to cut me free?_ They would end the
same way as the Karstarks, if she tried.

The king was displeased by their presence as well. “Your guards may
wait without. If I meant harm to you, two men would not dissuade me.”

The ironborn bowed and retreated. Asha took a knee. “Your Grace. Must
my brother be chained like that? It seems a poor reward for bringing
you the Stark girl.”

The king’s mouth twitched. “You have a bold tongue, my lady. Not
unlike your turncloak brother.”

“Thank you, Your Grace.”

“It was not a compliment.” Stannis gave Theon a long look. “The
village lacks a dungeon, and I have more prisoners than I anticipated
when we halted here.” He waved Asha to her feet. “You may rise.”

She stood. “The Braavosi ransomed my seven of my men from Lady
Glover. I would glady pay a ransom for my brother.”

“There is not enough gold on all your Iron Islands. Your brother’s
hands are soaked with blood. Farring is urging me to give him to
R’hllor.”

“Clayton Suggs as well, I do not doubt.”

“Him, Corliss Penny, all the rest. Even Ser Richard here, who only
loves the Lord of Light when it suits his purposes.”

“The red god’s choir only knows a single song.”

“So long as the song is pleasing in god’s ears, let them sing. Lord
Bolton’s men will be here sooner than we would wish. Only Mors Umber
stands between us, and your brother tells me his levies are made up
entirely of green boys. Men like to know their god is with them when
they go to battle.”

“Not all your men worship the same god.”

“I am aware of this. I am not the fool my brother was.”

“Theon is my mother’s last surviving son. When his brothers died, it
shattered her. His death will crush what remains of her… but I have
not come to beg you for his life.”

“Wise. I am sorry for your mother, but I do not spare the lives of
turncloaks. This one, especially. He slew two sons of Eddard
Stark. Every northman in my service would abandon me if I showed him
any clemency. Your brother must die.”

“Then do the deed yourself, Your Grace.” The chill in Asha’s voice
made Theon shiver in his chains. “Take him out across the lake to the
islet where the weirwood grows, and strike his head off with that
sorcerous sword you bear. That is how Eddard Stark would have done
it. Theon slew Lord Eddard’s sons. Give him to Lord Eddard’s gods. The
old gods of the north. Give him to the tree.”

And suddenly there came a wild thumping, as the maester’s ravens
hopped and flapped inside their cages, their black feathers flying as
they beat against the bars with loud and raucous caws. “_The tree,_”
one squawked, “_the tree, the tree,_” whilst the second screamed only,
“_Theon, Theon, Theon._”

Theon Greyjoy smiled. _They know my name,_ he thought.
