---
title: Tyrion I
info: from the "World of Ice and Fire" app
---

## **TYRION**

Somewhere off in the far distance, a dying man was screaming for his
mother. “To horse!” a man was yelling in Ghiscari, in the next camp to
the north of the Second Sons. “To horse! _To horse!_” High and shrill,
his voice carried a long way in the morning air, far beyond his own
encampment. Tyrion knew just enough Ghiscari to understand the words,
but the fear in his voice would have been plain in any tongue. _I know
how he feels_.

It was time to find his own horse, he knew. Time to don some dead
boy’s armor, buckle on a sword and dagger, slip his dinted greathelm
down over his head. Dawn had broken, and a sliver of the rising sun
was visible behind the city’s walls and towers, blindingly bright. To
the west the stars were fading, one by one. Trumpets were blowing
along the Skahazadhan, warhorns answering from the walls of Meereen. A
ship was sinking in the river mouth, afire. Dead men and dragons were
moving through the sky, whilst warships crashed and clashed on
Slaver’s Bay. Tyrion could not see them from here, but he could hear
the sounds: the crash of hull against hull as ships slammed together,
the deep-throated warhorns of the ironborn and queer high whistles of
Qarth, the splintering of oars, the shouts and battle cries, the crash
of axe on armor, sword on shield, all mingled with the shrieks of
wounded men. Many of the ships were still far out in the bay, so the
sounds they made seemed faint and far away, but he knew them all the
same. _The music of slaughter_.

Three hundred yards from where he stood rose the Wicked Sister, her
long arm swinging up with a clutch of corpses—_chunk-THUMP_—and there
they flew, naked and swollen, pale dead birds tumbling boneless
through the air. The siege camps shimmered in a gaudy haze of rose and
gold, but the famous stepped pyramids of Meereen hulked black against
the glare. Something was moving atop one of them, he saw. _A dragon,
but which one?_ At this distance, it could as easily have been an
eagle. _A very big eagle_.

After days spent hidden inside musty tents of the Second Sons, the
outside air smelled fresh and clear. Though he could not see the bay
from where he stood, the tang of salt told him it was near. Tyrion
filled his lungs with it. _A fine day for a battle_. From the east the
sound of drumming rolled across the parched plain. A column of mounted
men flashed past the Harridan, flying the blue banners of the
Windblown.

A younger man might have found it all exhilarating. A stupider man
might have thought it grand and glorious, right up to the moment when
some arse-ugly Yunkish slave soldier with rings in his nipples planted
an axe between his eyes. Tyrion Lannister knew better. _The gods did
not fashion me to wield a sword,_ he thought, _so why do they keep
putting me in the midst of battles?_

No one heard. No one answered. No one cared.

Tyrion found himself thinking back on his first battle. Shae had been
the first to stir, woken by his father’s trumpets. The sweet strumpet
who’d pleasured him for half the night had trembled naked in his arms,
a frightened child. _Or was all that a lie as well, a ploy she used to
make me feel brave and brilliant? What a mummer she might have been._
When Tyrion had shouted out for Podrick Payne to help him with his
armor, he’d found the boy asleep and snoring. _Not the quickest lad
I’ve ever known, but a decent squire in the end. I hope he found a
better man to serve_.

It was queer, but Tyrion remembered the Green Fork much better than
the Blackwater. _It was my first. You never forget your first._ He
remembered the fog drifting off the river, wending through the reeds
like pale white fingers. And the beauty of that sunrise, he remembered
that as well: stars strewn across a purple sky, the grass glittering
like glass with the morning dew, red splendor in the east. He
remembered the touch of Shae’s fingers as she helped Pod with Tyrion’s
mismatched armor. _That bloody helm. Like a bucket with a spike._ That
spike had saved him, though, had won him his first victory, but Groat
and Penny had never looked half as silly as he must have looked that
day. Shae had called him “fearsome” when she saw him in his steel,
mind you. _How could I have been so blind, so deaf, so stupid? I
should have known better than to do my thinking with my cock._

The Second Sons were saddling their horses. They went about it calmly,
unhurriedly, efficiently; it was nothing they had not done a hundred
times before. A few of them were passing a skin from hand to hand
though whether it was wine or water he could not say. Bokkoko was
kissing his lover shamelessly, kneading the boy’s buttocks with one
huge hand, the other tangled in his hair. Behind them, Ser Garibald
was brushing out the mane of his big gelding. Kem sat on a rock,
gazing at the ground… remembering his dead brother, perhaps, or
dreaming of that friend back in King’s Landing. Hammer and Nail moved
from man to man, checking spears and swords, adjusting armor, putting
an edge on any blade that needed it. Snatch chewed his sourleaf,
making japes and scratching at his balls with his hook hand. Something
about his manner reminded Tyrion of Bronn. _Ser Bronn of the
Blackwater now, unless my sister’s killed him. That might not be quite
so simple as she thinks._ He wondered how many battles these Second
Sons had fought. _How many skirmishes, how many raids? How many cities
have they stormed, how many brothers have they buried or left behind
to rot?_ Compared to them, Tyrion was a green boy, still untested,
though he had counted more years than half the company.

This would be his third battle. _Seasoned and blooded, stamped and
sealed, a proven warrior, that’s me. I’ve killed some men and wounded
others, taken wounds myself and lived to tell of them. I’ve led
charges, heard men scream my name, cut down bigger men and better,
even had a few small tastes of glory… and wasn’t that a fine rich wine
for heroes, and wouldn’t I like another taste?_ Yet with all he’d done
and all he’d seen, the prospect of another battle made his blood run
cold. He had traveled across half the world by way of palanquin,
poleboat, and pig, sailed in slave ships and trading galleys, mounted
whores and horses, all the time telling himself that he did not care
whether he lived or died… only to find that he cared quite a lot after
all.

The Stranger had mounted his pale mare and was riding toward them with
his sword in hand, but Tyrion Lannister did not care to meet with him
again. Not now. Not yet. Not this day. _What a fraud you are, Imp. You
let a hundred guardsmen rape your wife, shot your father through the
belly with a quarrel, twisted a golden chain around your lover’s
throat until her face turned black, yet somehow you still think that
you deserve to live._

Penny was already in her armor when Tyrion slipped back inside the
tent they shared. She had been strapping herself into wooden plate for
years in service to her mummery; real plate and mail were not so
different once you mastered all the clasps and buckles. And if the
company steel was dinted here and rusted there, scratched and stained
and discolored, no matter. It should still be good enough to stop a
sword

The only piece she had not donned was her helm. When he entered, she
looked up. “You’re not armored. What’s happening?”

“The usual things. Mud and blood and heroism, killing and
dying. There’s one battle being fought out on the bay, another one
beneath the city walls. Whichever way the Yunkish turn, they have a
foe behind them. The closest fighting’s a good league off still, but
we’ll be in it soon.” _On one side or the other._ The Second Sons were
ripe for another change of masters, Tyrion was almost certain of that…
though there was a great abyss between “certain” and “almost certain.”
_If I have misjudged my man, all of us are lost._ “Put on your helm
and make sure the clasps are closed. I took mine off once to keep from
drowning, and it cost me a nose.” Tyrion picked at his scar.

“We need to get you into your armor first.”

“If you wish. The jerkin first. The boiled leather, with the iron
studs. Ringmail over that, then the gorget.” He glanced about the
tent. “Is there wine?”

“No.”

“We had half a flagon left from supper.”

“A quarter of a flagon, and you drank it.”

He sighed. “I would sell my sister for a cup of wine.”

“You would sell your sister for a cup of horse piss.” That was so
unexpected that it made him laugh aloud. “Is my taste for horse piss
so well-known or have you met my sister?”

“I only saw her that one time, when we jousted for the boy king. Groat
thought she was beautiful.”

_Groat was a stunted little lickspittle with a stupid name._ “Only a
fool rides into battle sober. Plumm will have some wine. What if he
dies in the battle? It would be a crime to waste it.”

“Hold your tongue. I need to lace this jerkin up.”

Tyrion did try, but it seemed to him that the sounds of slaughter were
growing louder, and his tongue would not be held. “Pudding Face wants
to use the company to throw the ironmen back into the sea,” he heard
himself telling Penny, as she dressed him. “What he should have done
was send all his horse at the eunuchs, full charge, before they got
ten feet from their gates. Send the Cats at them from the left, us and
the Windblown from the right, rip apart their flanks from both
ends. Man to man, the Unsullied are no better or worse than any other
spearmen. It’s their discipline that makes them dangerous, but if they
cannot form up into a spear wall…”

“Lift your arms,” said Penny. “There, that’s better. Maybe you should
command the Yunkishmen.”

“They use slave soldiers, why not slave commanders? That would ruin
the contest, though. This is just a _cyvasse_ game to the Wise
Masters. We’re the pieces.” Tyrion canted his head to one side,
considering. “They have that in common with my lord father, these
slavers.” “Your father? What do you mean?”

“I was just recalling my first battle. The Green Fork. We fought
between a river and a road. When I saw my father’s host deploy, I
remember thinking how beautiful it was. Like a flower opening its
petals to the sun. A crimson rose with iron thorns. And my father, ah,
he had never looked so resplendent. He wore crimson armor, with this
huge greatcloak made of cloth-of-gold. A pair of golden lions on his
shoulders, another on his helm. His stallion was magnificent. His
lordship watched the whole battle from atop that horse and never got
within a hundred yards of any foe. He never moved, never smiled, never
broke a sweat, whilst thousands died below him. Picture me perched on
a camp stool, gazing down upon a _cyvasse_ board. We could almost be
twins… if I had a horse, some crimson armor, and a greatcloak sewn
from cloth-of-gold. He was taller too. I have more hair.”

Penny kissed him.

She moved so fast that he had no time to think. She darted in, quick
as a bird, and pressed her lips to his. Just as quickly it was
over. _What was that for?_ he almost said, but he knew what it was
for. _Thank you_, he might have said, but she might take that as leave
to do it again. _Child, I have no wish to hurt you,_ he could have
tried, but Penny was no child, and his wishes would not blunt the
cut. For the first time for longer than he cared to think, Tyrion
Lannister was at a loss for words.

_She looks so young,_ he thought. _A girl, that’s all she is. A girl,
and almost pretty if you can forget that she’s a dwarf._ Her hair was
a warm brown, thick and curly, and her eyes were large and
trusting. _Too trusting_.

“Do you hear that sound?” said Tyrion.

She listened. “What is it?” she said as she was strapping a pair of
mismatched greaves onto his stunted legs.

“War. On either side of us and not a league away. That’s slaughter,
Penny. That’s men stumbling through the mud with their entrails
hanging out. That’s severed limbs and broken bones and pools of
blood. You know how the worms come out after a hard rain? I hear they
do the same after a big battle if enough blood soaks into the
ground. That’s the Stranger coming, Penny. The Black Goat, the Pale
Child, Him of Many Faces, call him what you will. That’s death.”

“You’re scaring me.”

“Am I? Good. You should be scared. We have ironborn swarming ashore
and Ser Barristan and his Unsullied pouring out the city gates, with
us between them, fighting on the wrong bloody side. I am terrified
myself.”

“You say that, but you still make japes.”

“Japes are one way to keep the fear away. Wine’s another.”

“You’re brave. Little people can be brave.”

_My giant of Lannister,_ he heard. _She is mocking me._ He almost
slapped her again. His head was pounding.

“I never meant to make you angry,” Penny said “Forgive me. I’m
frightened, is all.” She touched his hand.

Tyrion wrenched away from her. _“I’m frightened.”_ Those were the same
words Shae had used. _Her eyes were big as eggs, and I swallowed every
bit of it. I knew what she was. I told Bronn to find a woman for me
and he brought me Shae._ His hands curled into fists, and Shae’s face
swam before him, grinning. Then the chain was tightening about her
throat, the golden hands digging deep into her flesh as her own hands
fluttered against his face with all the force of butterflies. If he’d
had a chain to hand… if he’d had a crossbow, a dagger, anything, he
would have… he might have… he…

It was only then that Tyrion heard the shouts. He was lost in a black
rage, drowning in a sea of memory, but the shouting brought the world
back in a rush. He opened his hands, took a breath, turned away from
Penny. “Something’s happening.” He went outside to discover what it
was. _Dragons._

The green beast was circling above the bay, banking and turning as
longships and galleys clashed and burned below him, but it was the
white dragon the sellswords were gawking at. Three hundred yards away
the Wicked Sister swung her arm, _chunk-THUMP,_ and six fresh corpses
went dancing through the sky. Up they rose, and up, and up. Then two
burst into flame.

The dragon caught one burning body just as it began to fall, crunching
it between his jaws as pale fires ran across his teeth. White wings
cracked against the morning air, and the beast began to climb
again. The second corpse caromed off an outstretched claw and plunged
straight down, to land amongst some Yunkish horsemen. Some of them
caught fire too. One horse reared up and threw his rider. The others
ran, trying to outrace the flames and fanning them instead. Tyrion
Lannister could almost taste the panic as it rippled out across the
camps.

The sharp, familiar scent of urine filled the air. The dwarf glanced
about and was relieved to see that it was Inkpots who had pissed
himself, not him. “You had best go change your breeches,” Tyrion told
him. “And whilst you are about it, turn your cloak.” The paymaster
blanched but did not move.

He was still standing there, staring as the dragon snatched corpses
from the air, when the messenger came pounding up. _A bloody officer,_
Tyrion saw at once. He was clad in golden armor and mounted on a
golden horse. Loudly he announced that he had come from the supreme
commander of the Yunkai’i, the noble and puissant Gorzhak zo
Eraz. “Lord Gorzhak sends his compliments to Captain Plumm and
requests that he bring his company to the bay shore. Our ships are
under attack.”

_Your ships are sinking, burning, fleeing,_ thought Tyrion. _Your
ships are being taken, your men put to the sword._ He was a Lannister
of Casterly Rock, close by the Iron Islands; ironborn reavers were no
strangers to their shores. Over the centuries they had burned
Lannisport at least thrice and raided it two dozen times. Westermen
knew what savagery the ironborn were capable of; these slavers were
just learning.

“Captain’s not here just now,” Inkpots told the messenger. “He’s gone
to see the Girl General.”

The rider pointed at the sun. “Lady Malazza’s command ended with the
rising of the sun. Do as Lord Gorzhak instructs you.”

“Attack the squid ships, you mean? The ones out there in the water?”
The paymaster frowned. “I don’t see how, myself, but when Brown Ben
gets back I’ll tell him what your Gorzhak wants.”

“I gave you a _command_. You will act upon it now.”

“We take commands from our captain,” Inkpots said in his usual mild
tone. “He’s not here. I told you.”

The messenger had lost his patience, Tyrion could see. “Battle is
joined. Your commander should be with you.”

“Might be, but he’s not. The girl sent for him. He went.”

The messenger went purple. “_You must carry out your order!_”

Snatch spat a wad of well-chewed sourleaf out of the left side of his
mouth. “Begging your pardon,” he told the Yunkish rider, “but we’re
all horsemen here, same as m’lord. Now, a good trained warhorse, he’ll
charge a wall o’ spears. Some will leap a fire ditch. But I never once
seen any horse could run on water.”

_“The ships are landing men,”_ screamed the Yunkish lordling. “They’ve
blocked the mouth of the Skahazadhan with a fireship, and every moment
you stand here talking another hundred swords come splashing through
the shallows. Assemble your men and drive them back into the sea! At
once! Gorzhak commands it!”

“Which one is Gorzhak?” asked Kem. “Is he the Rabbit?”

“Pudding Face,” said Inkpots. “The Rabbit’s not fool enough to send
light horse against longships.”

The rider had heard enough. “I shall inform Gorzhak zo Eraz that you
refuse to carry out his order,” he said stiffly. Then he wheeled his
golden horse around and galloped back the way he’d come, chased by a
gale of sellsword laughter.

Inkpots was the first to let his smile die. “Enough,” he said,
suddenly solemn. “Back to it. Get those horses saddled, I want every
man of you ready to ride when Ben gets back here with some proper
orders. And put that cookfire out. You can break your fasts after the
fighting’s done if you live that long.” His gaze fell on Tyrion. “What
are you grinning at? You look a little fool in that armor, Halfman.”

“Better to look a fool than to be one,” the dwarf replied. “We are on
the losing side.”

“The Halfman’s right,” said Jorah Mormont. “We do not want to be
fighting for the slavers when Daenerys returns… and she will, make no
mistake. Strike now and strike hard, and the queen will not forget
it. Find her hostages and free them. And I will swear on the honor of
my house and home that this was Brown Ben’s plan from the beginning.”

Out on the waters of Slaver’s Bay, another of the Qartheen galleys
went up in a sudden _whooosh_ of flame. Tyrion could hear elephants
trumpeting to the east. The arms of the six sisters rose and fell,
throwing corpses. Shield slammed against shield as two spear walls
came together beneath the walls of Meereen. Dragons wheeled overhead,
their shadows sweeping across the upturned faces of friend and foe
alike.

Inkpots threw up his hands. “I keep the books. I guard our gold. I
draw up our agreements, collect our wages, make certain that we have
sufficient coin to buy provisions. I do not decide who we fight or
when. That is for Brown Ben to say. Take it up with him when he
returns.”

By the time Plumm and his companions came galloping back from the camp
of the Girl General, the white dragon had flown back to its lair above
Meereen. The green still prowled, soaring in wide circles above the
city and the bay on great green wings.

Brown Ben Plumm wore plate and mail over boiled leather. The silk
cloak flowing from his shoulders was his only concession to vanity: it
rippled when he moved, the color changing from pale violet to deep
purple. He swung down from his horse and gave her over to a groom,
then told Snatch to summon his captains.

“Tell them to make haste,” added Kasporio the Cunning.

Tyrion was not even a serjeant, but their _cyvasse_ games had made him
a familiar sight in Brown Ben’s tent, and no one tried to stop him
when he entered with the rest. Besides Kasporio and Inkpots, Uhlan and
Bokkoko were amongst those summoned. The dwarf was surprised to see
Ser Jorah Mormont there as well.

“We are commanded to defend the Wicked Sister,” Brown Ben informed
them. The other men exchanged uneasy glances. No one seemed to want to
speak until Ser Jorah asked, “On whose authority?”

“The girl’s. Ser Grandfather is making for the Harridan, but she’s
afraid he’ll turn toward Wicked Sister next. The Ghost is already
down. Marselen’s freedmen broke the Long Lances like a rotten stick
and dragged it over with chains. The girl figures Selmy means to bring
down all the trebuchets.”

“It’s what I’d do in his place,” Ser Jorah said. “Only I would have
done it sooner.” “Why is the girl still giving orders?” Inkpots
sounded baffled. “Dawn has come and gone. Can she not see the sun? She
is behaving as if she were still the supreme commander.” “If you were
her and knew that Pudding Face were about to assume command, you might
keep giving orders too,” said Mormont.

“One is no better than the other,” Kasporio insisted.

“True,” said Tyrion, “but Malazza has the nicer teats.”

“Crossbows is how you hold the Wicked Sister,” Inkpots
said. “Scorpions. Mangonels. That’s what’s needed. You do not use
mounted men to defend a fixed position. Does the girl mean for us to
dismount? If so, why not use her spears or slingers?”

Kem stuck his pale blond head inside the tent. “Sorry to disturb,
m’lords, but another rider’s come. Says he has new orders from the
supreme commander.”

Brown Ben glanced at Tyrion, then shrugged. “Send him in.”

“In here?” Kem asked, confused.

“Here is where I seem to be,” Plumm said, with a trace of
irritation. “If he goes somewhere else, he will not find me.”

Out went Kem. When he returned, he held the tent flap open for a
Yunkish nobleman in a cloak of yellow silk and matching
pantaloons. The man’s oily black hair had been tortured, twisted, and
lacquered to make it seem as if a hundred tiny roses were sprouting
from his head. On his breastplate was a scene of such delightful
depravity that Tyrion sensed a kindred spirit.

“The Unsullied are advancing toward the Harpy’s Daughter,” the
messenger announced. “Bloodbeard and two Ghiscari legions stand
against them. Whilst they hold the line, you are to sweep around
behind the eunuchs and take them in the rear, sparing none. This by
the command of the most noble and puissant Morghar zo Zherzyn, supreme
commander of the Yunkai’i.”

“Morghar?” Kasporio frowned. “No, Gorzhak commands today.”

“Gorzhak zo Eraz lies slain, cut down by Pentoshi treachery. The
turncloak who names himself the Prince of Tatters shall die screaming
for this infamy, the noble Morghar swears.” Brown Ben scratched at his
beard. “The Windblown have gone over, have they?” he said, in a tone
of mild interest.

Tyrion chortled. “And we’ve traded Pudding Face for the Drunken
Conquerer. It’s a wonder he was able to crawl out of the flagon long
enough to give a halfway-sensible command.”

The Yunkishman glared at the dwarf. “Hold your tongue, you verminous
little—” His retort withered. “This insolent dwarf is an escaped
slave,” he declared, shocked. “He is the property of the noble Yezzan
zo Qaggaz of hallowed memory.”

“You are mistaken. He is my brother-in-arms. A free man, and a Second
Son. Yezzan’s slaves wear golden collars.” Brown Ben smiled his most
amiable smile. “Golden collars, with little bells. Do you hear bells?
I hear no bells.”

“Collars can be removed. I demand that the dwarf be surrended for
punishment at once.” “That seems harsh. Jorah, what do you think?”

“This.” Mormont’s longsword was in his hand. As the rider turned, Ser
Jorah thrust it through his throat. The point came out the back of the
Yunkishman’s neck, red and wet. Blood bubbled from his lips and down
his chin. The man took two wobbly steps and fell across the _cyvasse_
board, scattering the wooden armies everywhere. He twitched a few more
times, grasping the blade of Mormont’s sword with one hand as the
other clawed feebly at the overturned table. Only then did the
Yunkishman seem to realize he was dead. He lay facedown on the carpet
in a welter of red blood and oily black roses. Ser Jorah wrenched his
sword free of the dead man’s neck. Blood ran down its fullers.

The white _cyvasse_ dragon ended up at Tyrion’s feet. He scooped it
off the carpet and wiped it on his sleeve, but some of the Yunkish
blood had collected in the fine grooves of the carving, so the pale
wood seemed veined with red. “All hail our beloved queen, Daenerys.”
_Be she alive or be she dead._ He tossed the bloody dragon in the air,
caught it, grinned. “We have always been the queen’s men,” announced
Brown Ben Plumm. “Rejoining the Yunkai’i was just a plot.”

“And what a clever ploy it was.” Tyrion gave the dead man a shove with
his boot. “If that breastplate fits, I want it.”
