---
title: Victarion I
info: partial, from a [transcript](http://www.reddit.com/comments/r1v01/transcript_of_the_excerpt_from_the_victarion/) by reddit user [/u/icedune21](http://www.reddit.com/user/icedune21)
---

## **VICTARION**

The _Noble Lady_ was a tub of a ship, as fat and wallowing as the
noble ladies of the green lands. Her holds were huge, and Victarion
packed them with armed men. With her would sail the other, lesser
prizes that the Iron Fleet had taken on its long voyage to Slaver’s
Bay, a lubberly assortment of cogs, great cogs, carracks, and trading
galleys salted here and there with fishing boats. It was a fleet both
fat and feeble, promising much in the way of wool and wines and other
trade goods and little in the way of danger. Victarion gave the
command of it to Wulf One-Ear.

“The slavers may shiver when they spy your sails rising from the sea,”
he told him. “but once they see you plain they will laugh at their
fears. Traders and fishers, that’s all you are. Any man can see
that. Let them get close as they like, but keep your men hidden
belowdecks until you are ready. Then close, and board them. Free the
slaves and feed the slavers to the sea, but take the ships. We will
have need of every hull to carry us back home.”

“Home,” Wulf grinned. “The men’ll like the sound o’ that, Lord
Captain. The ships first – then we break these Yunkishmen. Aye.”

The _Iron Victory_ was lashed alongside the _Noble Lady_, the two
ships bound tight with chains and grappling hooks, a ladder stretched
between them. The great cog was much larger than the warship and sat
higher in the water. All along the gunwales the faces of the Ironborn
peered down, watching as Victarion clapped Wulf One-Ear on the
shoulder and sent him clambering up the ladder. The sea was smooth and
still, the sky bright with stars. Wulf ordered the ladder drawn up,
the chains cast off. The warship and the cog parted ways. In the
distance the rest of Victarion’s famed fleet was raising sail. A
ragged cheer went up from the crew of the _Iron Victory_, and was
answered in kind by the men of the _Noble Lady_.

Victarion had given Wulf his best fighters. He envied them. They would
be the first to strike a blow, the first to see that look of fear in
the foemen’s eyes. As he stood at the prow of the _Iron Victory_
watching One-Ear’s merchant ships vanish one by one into the west, the
faces of the first foes he’d ever slain came back to Victarion
Greyjoy. He thought of his first ship, of his first woman. A
restlessness was in him, a hunger for the dawn and the things this day
would bring. _Death or glory, I will drink my fill of both today._ The
Seastone Chair should’ve been his when Balon died, but his brother
Euron had stolen it from him, just as he had stolen his wife many
years before. _He stole her and he soiled her, but he left it for me
to slay her._

All that was done and gone now, though. Victarion would have his due
at last. _I have the horn, and soon I will have the woman. A woman
lovelier than the wife he made me kill._

“Captain.” The voice belonged to Longwater Pyke. “The oarsmen await
your pleasure.”

Three of them, and strong ones. “Send them to my cabin. I’ll want the
priest as well.”

The oarsmen were all big. One was a boy, one a brute, one a bastard’s
bastard. The Boy had been rowing for less than a year, the Brute for
twenty. They had names, but Victarion did not know them. One had come
from _Lamentation_, one from _Sparrow Hawk_, one from _Spider
Kiss_. He could not be expected to know the names of every thrall who
had ever pulled an oar in the Iron Fleet.

“Show them the horn,” he commanded, when the three had been ushered
into his cabin.

Moqorro brought it forth, and the dusky woman lifted up a lantern to
give them all a look. In the shifting lantern light the hell-horn
seemed to writhe and turn in the priest’s hands like a serpent
fighting to escape. Moqorro was a man of monstrous size – big-bellied,
broad-shouldered, towering – but even in his grasp the horn looked
huge.

“My brother found this thing on Valyria,” Victarion told the
thralls. “Think how big the dragon must’ve been to bear two of these
upon his head. Bigger than Vhagar or Meraxes, bigger than Balerion the
Black Dread.” He took the horn from Moqorro and ran his palm along its
curves. “At the Kingsmoot on Old Wyk one of Euron’s mutes blew upon
this horn. Some of you will remember. It was not a sound that any man
who heard it will ever forget.”

“They say he died,” the Boy said, “him who blew the horn.”

“Aye. The horn was smoking after. The mute had blisters on his lips,
and the bird inked across his chest was bleeding. He died the next
day. When they cut him open his lungs were black.”

“The horn is cursed,” said the Bastard’s Bastard.

“A dragon’s horn from Valyria,” said Victarion. “Aye, it’s cursed. I
never said it wasn’t.” He brushed his hand across one of the red gold
bands and the ancient glyph seemed to sing beneath his fingertips. For
half a heartbeat he wanted nothing so much as to sound the horn
himself. _Euron was a fool to give me this, it is a precious thing,
and powerful. With this I’ll win the Seastone Chair, and then the Iron
Throne. With this I’ll win the world._

“Claggorn blew the horn thrice and died for it. He was as big as any
of you, and strong as me. So strong that he could twist a man’s head
right off his shoulders with only his bare hands, and yet the horn
killed him.”

“It will kill us too, then,” said the Boy.

Victarion did not oft forgive a thrall for talking out of turn, but
the Boy was young, no more than twenty, and soon to die besides. He
let it pass.

“The mute sounded the horn three times. You three will sound it only
once. Might be you’ll die, might be you won’t. All men die. The Iron
Fleet is sailing into battle. Many on this very ship will be dead
before the sun goes down – stabbed or slashed, gutted, drowned, burned
alive – only the Gods know which of us will still be here come the
morrow. Sound the horn and live and I’ll make free men of you, one or
two or all three. I’ll give you wives, a bit of land, a ship to sail,
thralls of your own. Men will know your names.”

“Even you, Lord Captain?” asked the Bastard’s Bastard.

“Aye.”

“I’ll do it then.”

“And me,” said the Boy.

The Brute crossed his arms and nodded.

If it made the three feel braver to believe they had a choice, let
them cling to that. Victarion cared little what they believed, they
were only thralls.

“You will sail with me on _Iron Victory_,” he told them, “but you will
not join the battle. Boy, you’re the youngest – you’ll sound the horn
first. When the time comes you will blow it long and loud. They say
you are strong. Blow the horn until you are too weak to stand, until
the last bit of breath has been squeezed from you, until your lungs
are burning. Let the freedmen hear you in Meereen, the slavers in
Yunkai, the ghosts in Astapor. Let the monkeys shit themselves at the
sound when it rolls across the Isle of Cedars. Then pass the horn
along to the next man. Do you hear me? Do you know what to do?”

The Boy and the Bastard’s Bastard tugged their forelocks; the Brute
might’ve done the same, but he was bald.

“You may touch the horn. Then go.”

They left him one by one. The three thralls, and then
Moqorro. Victarion would not let him take the hell-horn.

“I will keep it here with me, until it is needed.”

“As you command. Would you have me bleed you?”

Victarion seized the dusky woman by the wrist and pulled her to
him. “She will do it. Go pray to your red god. Light your fire, and
tell me what you see.”

Moqorro’s dark eyes seemed to shine. “I see dragons.”
